# ADVANCED REQUIREMENTS ENGINEERING

EXAMINATION: 
- participation in all workshops
- take-home exam
- group project

COURSE LITERATURE: 
- 

## LECTURE 1 - Project mission
- key issues: rushing into solutions
    - instead: who has the problem? (ask users)
    - define the problem based on the feedback
    - understand the problem from various perspectives

Problem: is a difference between things as desired and thigns as perceived
Requirement: is a condition needed by a user to solve a problem or achieve an objective
Requirements engineering: a systematic approach ro reduce the likelyhood to develop the wrong solution
(i.e., one that does not solve the problem)

Most common definition for requirement is from [IEEE, 1990]. 

- course content: focus on requirements analysis & requirements management

## LECTURE 2 - Elicitation

- Scopes: 
    * Business case (goal-level requirements)
    * User (domain-level requirements)
    * System (product-level)
    * Design-level requirements

- 'tacit requirements': unknown knowns

- Requirements elicitation: 
    * The process of seeking, uncovering, acquiring, and elaborating requirements for software systems
    * A complex process consisting of many activities using a range of available techniques, aproaches and tools for performing them. 
    * Multifaceted, communication rich and iterative activity, relying heavily on communication skills from the engineers part and the commitment/cooperation of stakeholders. 
    * Requirements are generally accepted as elicited but not just captured or collected

    - ACTIVITIES: 
        * The process of exploring and Understanding the domain/context
        * Identifying and Characterising the stakeholders
        * Selecting Elicitation Methods, Tools and
        Techniques
        * Applying the Selected Method, Tool and
        Technique to Elicit the Requirements
        * Organise, Review and Revise the Elicited
        Requirements (maybe)

- Domain: 
    * Deep knowledge on a specific domain is critical in requirements engineer

- Challenges in elicitation: 
    * Stakeholders from different domains
    * Different languages involved
    * Not met before
    - Symmetry of ignorace: Customer may know the problem or need but not the required technology for it. Supplier may know the technology but not the problem. No stakeholder can define solutions to a problem. 
    - Tacit knowledge: type of knowledge difficult to transfer to another person by means of writing it down or verbalizing it

- How to do elicitation: 
    - Rules: 
        * care about stakeholders' problems
        * focus on the stakeholder
        * 'Be human', acknowledge limitations
        * Listen
        * Expect changes
        * Maintain a glossary

    - Stakeholder map:
        * Systematic overview of stakeholders with relevant information (name, relationship to system, representative and contact)
        * Stakeholders should have influence on requirements
        * Include power/sentiment
        * Consider people with advantages/disadventages from the system or its development and also include people who may think they have advantages/disadventages  
    - Elicitation methods:
        * Observation, document analysis, interviews can be done early in the project
        * Assumption busting: List all assumptions relevant to your problem, including obvious ones, and then challenging the the correctnes of each assumption. 
        * BrightSparks: Conduct braintsorming sessions with stakeholders to generate creative ideas and uncover requirements
        * 
    - Interviews:


## LECTURE - DOCUMENTATION

### Abstraction levels

### Requirements documentation

- Role of documentation:

- Functional VS Non-functional
    * Performance requirement (attribute): requirements that partains to a performance concern
    * Functional requirement: or operational requirements are a description of behavioral aspects of a system, i.e. specifying the inputs to the system, the outputs from the system and behavioral relationships.
    * specific quality requirement (attribute): is a requirement that pertains to a quality concern other than the quality of meeting the functional requirements.
    * Constraint requirement: a requirement that constraints the solution space what is necessary for meeting the given functional, performance, and specific quality requirements
    * Non-functional requirement: an attribute or constraint on a system 

- Quality criteria
- Context diagram


## EXAM - WHAT TO COVER
### L2
• What is E. / Why is E. difficult: Must know. (= Likely in Take-Home Exam)
• Stakeholder Map and Analysis: Must know. (= Use in Project and likely in
Take-Home Exam).
• Overview of Elicitation Methods: Must know.
• Interviews and Strategies for Elicitation: Should know.
• Common interview mistakes: additional training if needed.
• Focus group: Must know. Read in book!
• Goal-Domain Tracing: Must know. Read in book!


##  LECTURE 4 - Intepretation and Negotiation

Non-functional requirements: 
    *
    * Quality Models: 
    * Quality grid: 
        - Is used to prioritize requirements
    * Open metric and open target
    * Usability
    * Usability problems
    * Usability requirements
    *


Functional requirements: 
    * 


NOTE: distinctions between functional and non functional is not always black and white. 

Negotiations
    * What is priotization 
    * Priotization
        - Priotization challenges
        - Objects and criteria
        - When to priotize ? 
        - Techniques for priotization
        
##  LECTURE 4 - Intepretation and Negotiation

##  LECTURE 7 - Traceability

* Priotization techniques: 
    -$100 method
    -AHP
    -Bubble sort
    -Planning poker
    -Planning game

* Interdependencies

* Traceability definition
    - Traceability
    - Hozirontal traceability
    - Vertical traceability 

* Traceability matrix

* Requirements traceability
